well I'm so glad that Sebastian Park
could return here to the Travis cafard
eSports studio to talk about his new
roster if you missed it just a couple
days ago we talked about their team
entering the LCS and now you actually
have a lineup of players and it's
complete surprise to anybody who has
been paying attention to write it I'm
sure but you want to talk to me about
who you guys picked up for your first
split yeah sure so we're really happy to
be announcing not only here but also on
social media but really here really hear
that our roster will consist of solo in
the top lane
Lee red jungle that have been ATS mid
Apollo ADC and Haku at support yeah so
really excited about that very cool so
maybe you can talk to me a little bit
about all the you know I'm sure we
didn't can't go into the specifics so
the wheeling and dealing that you were
doing behind the scenes but what how did
you arrive at this roster yeah so we had
a scouting board right and so if you
imagine ten columns the ten columns had
important North America important of
America and like the different positions
and on those columns like we were like
who's our favorite support in North
America and we're like Jaco is our
favorite support in North America and
like who's our favorite jungler in North
America it's like Leo's our favorite
jungler in North America and we're like
okay so let's figure why's it got our
favorite people and so and then we also
have like rankings of like you know fake
hurts everyone else in the mid lane we
had rankings for all our top laners and
we're like okay let's just be prepared
and everyone got loves sleep over the
weekend because come the 21st we're not
sleeping for four days and so that's
sort of how all came together just
spinning off of what you just said there
it and I want to go a little broader in
a second but just because you mentioned
it look I like Jaco a lot I think a lot
of people do but a lot of people will
also probably say in response to that
first statement well bio frost became
available bio frost went to Worlds was
on one of these top teams you know is it
true that the roster that you have right
now in every Lane is the the first pick
you would have had out of all the
available free agents because that's
kind of the way you're describing it
yeah so actually that's a really good
question right we bio frost wasn't
available and that's not to say that we
would have
we think Jaco is really good how code
made strictly be better than by all
Frost but there's a lot of variance in
there as well right
it might be met depend it might be skill
dependent hug the things Jaco is good
that he's the best in the world at do we
know that for a fact but there are other
things we just aren't sure about the
thing that's like really important for
us was look we want to lock in our guys
and we're a different situation than say
cloud 9 or TSM or Team Liquid what team
look what's not so much but we're all
actually we're in a very different
situation Team Liquid but the but we had
to like find our guys and when we start
the process we were like wow like we
were really impressed with Nick we when
we finally got a chance like on the
twenty first to talk with Nick the first
thing we've really being for oh yeah so
to talk well we were like wow we're like
blown away with like the type of person
he is the type of player he's kids we
love to bomb film our scouts raved about
him for the last six months and so we
were like super excited about the
opportunity got him and then lira is
what's crazy right like he's like crazy
good we had a chance to talk to him as
well we're like you want to stay out
here man
you want to stay and wear this hat yeah
like then he said sure and so we were
happy to come to terms of him and then
from there you know we we went off and
signed the rest of our roster but we had
a really solid core to start with yeah
you know when you say film you have a
lot of Millennials that are not sports
fans that are watching this so they
probably have no idea what that means it
means bods right I mean BOTS so like the
two things that we saw for for vod's
were like either the matches that NB
played when like they were supposed to
be losing hard to like double lift right
and just like worked right like the
perception was like they're supposed to
be losing hard to double that bio frost
but there were like sometimes going even
and matches they should be losing and
winning matches they shouldn't be
winning and that was like wow this is
really not what you expect on in bods or
off film and I'd like really turn this
to them to be good enough so obviously
the the haka ho we've talked about him
and we've talked about and Lear I think
is almost kind of self-explanatory since
he was so highly lauded last year how
did you end up with febiven because
obviously an import slot how did you
decide to spend that on him wow man so
the Federman story is really crazy
we didn't we
Feli been super high up in the world we
think Belvin is amazing we think he's 1d
like true like protge level talents
out there and we really wanted to bring
him in but like similar to how we also
want to bring on guys like faker we're
like okay well reach out but there's no
way and how this will ever work out and
so we were talking to we were looking a
lot of different options right in the
mid lane we're looking a lot of
different options and then literally I
think it was like 6 or 7 a.m. Central
times like 5 a.m. here on like a
Wednesday like feather even just tweets
while he's in Vietnam just relaxing like
hey I'm a free agent just send me an
email and our guy like really like
chakras are like one of our head Scouts
calls me 5 a.m. is like yo you need to
send an email right now and I'm like
what do you mean it's like nothing's
available like what like huh why would
why would that be how would that happen
like I mean as you know like League of
Legends doesn't have a real fluid free
agency period most of the time people
lock in their guys and you only have
people available right and we just
didn't think that even would be
available and then once he became
available we were super excited we were
like okay let's send him an email we
sent him an email he responded in flame
that's we were on skype in an hour and
then we had signed him in 24 hours yeah
so that's crazy and then do you want to
go through the rest of the lineup
I mean how Co I guess Apollo is a pretty
it's kind of a shoo-in then yeah yeah so
I mean Apollo we first of all first of
all like clutch gaming Houston Rockets
Apollo like that has to be a no-brainer
right none of that resonates with me
really like a poet 13 know that no no
but okay I get it yes the Apollo rockets
rockets yes very cute Apollo Apollo is a
solid player we like him a lot and then
our head coach David had worked with
solo before and a couple of our
assistant coaches at work with solo and
we were looking for top laners we
thought had a higher ceiling like guys
who can improve in their role and really
make us a world caliber roster right
because the honest answer is that like
our goal has always been to make worlds
year one and then get off group stages
at least by a year - right and that's
our goal for our organizations but on
the competitive side but unfortunately
we just haven't we just like didn't know
necessarily where to go to make that
happen and what we saw in Colin's solo
and in our interviews with Pam and all
the filming watch of him and also
talking to a lot of his teammates and
staff was it here was a solid player who
has improved a ton this past year both
in mind said adding like mechanical
ability and one we hope that in our
environment can get better over time as
well earlier this week I had Nick Allen
and marking my show and we were talking
about one of the questions I asked him
is I feel like in the past with League
of Legends rosters and during offseason
you fans could for the most part
evaluate a roster just based on you know
how smart they thought that the team
wasn't acquiring them excited one factor
of people maybe until like the Immortals
time came in people didn't really think
too much about the budgets involved with
acquiring these talent this talent you
mentioned that you had a bunch of names
on this board even in the midlane you
had all the way up to faker so one of
the questions I have for you is you know
do you think fans should start
considering when they're looking at a
lineup
maybe the budget that is involved in
acquiring that and and in specifically
with you guys was there a budgetary
concern at all that came into play with
this or did you just basically have a
blank check to build this roster a
hundred percent we had a budget right
like our budget we like how a budget
from day one we have budget before we
knew all this craziness but for to your
original question about like what should
fancy I mean I think it's up to the fan
right if you want to consider the budget
great for you Matt like please let give
me a call we're more than happy to chat
about this type of stuff but if you're
if you're someone who's just a fan and
just want to watch good League of
Legends you probably don't have any
incentive to care about like what how
much the roster was spent like if the
rosters a million dollars and the
million dollar roster is like killing
everyone and like beating a ten million
dollar roster that's like a cool story
in a vacuum but in impracticality just
doesn't happen very often one and two
like quite frankly it's still legal
legends it's still a matches so we have
to put the players on the rift and you
have to let them play and no memory is
going like decrease that variance or
decrease or change the change the
outcome of that match and so at the end
of the day it's just a question of like
what you as a parent want to look at
sure I mean the part of the reason I ask
is not only do I I think it's
interesting to sort of talk about the
variance and
how teams are spending in the space but
and obviously I'm kind of like insider
baseball guy here right part of my
interest in this as to your point not
the way some fans are going to be but
also because in traditional sports often
times you have salary caps you have
drafts you have all free agency periods
that are a little different than any
sports and so there are stories that go
into how will we need team is built you
know people talk about how the Warriors
were able to bet on certain players and
then bring in some other players and
sort of the way they approach it and
certainly with with Rockets there's
conversations about like the numbers
that you guys crunch to figure that
stuff out so I guess my whole point here
at the end of the spiel is like is that
do you think that that's gonna become a
broader discussion in the space yeah I
mean I think you definitely can't become
a bigger discussion we're going to talk
about certainly we're going like
definite let people know why we've made
certain decisions but the end of the day
we're evaluated not based on like our
like wins per dollar amount right and
we're evaluated whether or not we beat
ESM be cloud nine be team liquid right
and so given that like it it doesn't
make a lot of sense for us to like
grumble about other people's salaries or
other people's budgets for us it just
like look here are resources the goal of
this game and this league is to win
let's go out there and win so you have
lauded this team as as clutch being as a
very transparent organization being very
open with your fans
how much should you spend on your roster
so we can't talk about that for legal
reasons actually so else we would talk
about a lot and now now if Ryan wants to
change their rules and like make
everything public we're all for that as
well
but for a time being we have to respect
like confidentiality and all those
things and so it's actually really funny
there were there are some really
interesting rumors flying around about
like you know like tens of millions of
dollars being spent that's like don't
think anyone's doing that so that's
that's something one range that's not
true and the other thing is I just
remember that like it's important for
organizations to be sustainable right
like it's you shouldn't care about
organizations winning or losing based on
how much money they have you should care
that the league is sustainable and
growing and able to support not only the
LCS but also Academy League and
everything else all right so good good
about the business side to get back to
the roster how is this roster going to
be the best roster and na LCS next year
so we have to get lucky
honestly like there is a strong
component of luck here there if
everything goes our way I think we have
a chance of being the best roster in
North America
Biden that's was not a large chance
right I think there are other rosters
that we look yeah we're like wow this
roster because is the best roster in
North America more often than not so if
you might imagine all the different
realities in the world and all the
different realities we have reading this
roster is you know very solid has a
potential be the number one all-time
should be six right hopefully never
seventh we're never out of the playoffs
but like you know that even that outcome
happens like once out of like every so
often and so that's like sort of our
thinking about this right now is just
like hey weeding this roster has a lot
of upside we have a lot of room to grow
we think the players were are were and
are and will be great players and so
it's just a question of like dudes
things starts falling our way I'm sure
you want to keep a couple things up your
sleeve but sort of at the end of this
discussion on the roster I'd love to get
a sense from you on on what happens next
so clearly these guys have to live
somewhere and they need to start
practicing at some point in time I don't
know in the past we've heard of teams
going to create a boot camp to hit ahead
of time so what between now and the
start of the season should we expect for
you guys to you know accomplish with
this roster sure so I mean the first
thing is just getting everyone to the
country right I think one thing that's
talked often on the sidelines of the LCS
and organizations is just like getting
visas it's hard yeah right and so we
need make sure everyone's visas are good
to go when you make everyone's housing
is good to go
practice facilities practice regiments
are good to go make sure our scrim
schedules are really solid you know
really advocate for the type of scrim
schedule that we want to have for our
team and we're also like looking and
finishing out like our Academy Lee see
like if there are players out there who
you know have the ability to become LCS
starters or superstars finding those
players signing those players and then
going from there from that perspective
and then on the flip side of that is
just also like making sure our players
are come
right at the end of the day Bevins never
played in North America before I think
he'll kill it out here but we still want
to make sure he's good to go and good to
go
Lera you know come back from Korea
refreshed ready to go
Apollo Jaco make sure those
communications are great to go integrate
solo into this new roster there are a
lot of things moving parts that we need
to make sure of and then finish out our
coaching and analyst definition our
scouting staff we have a couple of
openings still and so we got finished
those out as well where can people apply
because my YouTube commenters and the
reddit people I think they have a lot of
suggestions for how to play league of
legends competitively so actually so
that's really interesting right like if
you want just tweet at us at clutch
gaming we we our guys respond all the
time and there's some really interesting
ideas we see out there right there was
something that we saw on the NBA side
the other day which was like oh like hey
extra white player can't do this in this
city right and as it turns out we have
the ability to check that and like test
those assumptions and similarly in
league of legends like you know we spent
a long time like back since February
building our data infrastructure we you
know we've talked a lot to guys like Tim
seven Houston we've talked a lot of guys
who've done Alex in the space and what
we're looking for right now are just
questions like if your questions like
does this type of jungler workout would
be like that's interesting we'll go look
at that so I'll probably start doing
that and then I think given how many
hours we were awake and how I've
basically unfortunately forced myself
and my staff like skip Thanksgiving I
don't lie everyone go home and like
spend Christmas and New Year's and
whatever religious holidays so every you
have dodged a question about the career
page if people want to work for you
where can they were can they apply fine
we have some openings on NBA jobs
actually so we have you can go to the
MBA chops I can find the openings on the
eSports side you can like but I think
also you can just send you can send if
you're good enough to find my contact
email which is somewhere on the internet
like it's a little bit of a scavenger
hunt buts not that hard if you can find
it and you send me a contact I email I
respond to every email I got start going
to be the number one comment in the
thread I'm sure is there anything that
you would like to say to any of the fans
about this roster about you know any of
the stuff that you guys are announcing
around this time
I think I think it's really awesome that
we think we have a really good core
right we think febiven and lira our
superstar level players and we're doing
they're gonna kill it next but but I
also think you shouldn't overlook solo
you should definitely not overlook
Apollo and people should start having
the conversation as to whether in the
hakko should be in that conversation if
not above the conversation a best
supporting then a will find out excited
to see your roster going to action at
the start of next year thank you so much
for sitting down with me to talk about
the lineup
I'm excited again to see that for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things eSports
right here on my youtube channel a lot
of people ask me whenever I said that
other thing about doublelift charging me
$5,000 for an interview if that was real
no it was an obvious joke he charters me
$10,000 an interview please please help
me out
Travis CARICOM / support